Human Interface Guidelines for eLAS v1
======================================

This document describes the basic foundations for the user interface of eLAS.  It is loosely based on v1 of the Gnome HIG.
Full HIG-compliance is a long-term goal which will be achieved somewhere during the 2.x lifecycle.

Chapter 1: Usability principles
-------------------------------

1. Let Users Know What's Going On
---------------------------------

Always keep the user informed of what's going on by using appropriate feedback at an appropriate time.
When the user performs an action, provide feedback to indicate that the system has received the input and is operating on it.
Error messages should use simple language, clearly state the problem, and provide solutions or tell the user how to get out of the current situation if possible.

2. Simple and Pretty
--------------------

eLAS should enable the user to concentrate on the task at hand. So, it should show only useful and relevant information and interface elements.

3. Forgive the User
-------------------

If an action is very dangerous, and there is no way to undo the result, warn the user and ask for confirmation. Only do this in extreme cases, though; if frequently faced with such confirmation messages, users begin to ignore them, making them worse than useless.

Chapter 2: Alerts and forms
---------------------------

1. Primary and secondary text
-----------------------------

The primary text provides the user with a one sentence summary of the information or suggested action. This summary should concisely contain the essential details of the problem or suggestion. Every alert has primary text, displayed in a bold font.

Secondary text provides a more in-depth description of the problem and suggested action, including possible side effects. Secondary text can also provide information that may be helpful in allowing the user to make an informed decision. In most situations the user should only need the primary text to make a quick decision, but they may read the secondary text if they are unsure of the proper course of action, or require extra details. Secondary text is optional.

2. buttons
----------

Give all alerts an affirmative button that dismisses the alert and performs the action suggested in the primary text. Provide a Cancel button for all alerts displayed in response to a user actions, such as Quit. You may also provide buttons to perform alternate actions that provide another possible solution, fix potential problems, or launch related dialogs or programs.

Button Phrasing.
Write button labels as imperative verbs, for example Save, Print. This allows users to select an action with less hesitation. An active phrase also fits best with the button's role in initiating actions, as contrasted with a more passive phrase. For example Find and Log In are better buttons than than Yes and OK.

Affirmative Button.
Place the affirmative button in the lower right corner of the alert or form. The affirmative button accepts the action proposed by the alert or form.

Cancel Button.
If the alert was produced in response to a user action, place a Cancel button immediately to the left of the affirmative button. This provides an escape route for users to stop an action in response to new information, or just if they clicked accidentally. Clicking the Cancel button reverts the application to its state prior to the user action.

Alternate Buttons.
Extra buttons may be used to provide alternates to the primary action proposed by the alert text. Place these buttons to the left of the Cancel button, or the affirmative button if Cancel is not present. An example of a common alternate action would be a Quit without Saving button in a save confirmation alert. This is an alternative to the primary suggested action Save and the Cancel button.

3. Confirmation boxes
---------------------

A confirmation alert presents a button labelled with a verb or verb phrase describing the action to be confirmed, or labelled OK if such a phrase would be longer than three words. This button is placed in the bottom right corner of the alert.

Left to the affermative button is a cancellation button.
